Story Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to show a 1997 action,
adventure, and sci-fi film called, “The
Fifth Element.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
It’s 1914 and Professor Pacoli and his student,
Billy Masterson, are investigating the ruins
of an Egyptian temple.
Pacoli is on the verge of discovering an ancient
prophecy and interprets the writings on the
walls.
It speaks of a great evil that will come in
5,000 years, unleashing from a black hole
and causing chaos and death.
The only thing that can stop it is a weapon
consisting of the four elements, water, fire,
earth, and air, and the fifth element, a perfect
being.
Pacoli believes that the fifth element is
the key, but he is unable to figure it out.
Just then, a priest from the secret order
approaches the two men, offering a toast of
poisoned water to their success.
Pacoli throws out the water and insists that
they drink wine instead.
Just then, an enormous ship lands on top of
the pyramid.
The priest is terrified and gasps that they’re
here.
Huge robotic-like creatures emerge from the
ship and approach the men.
The priest pleads with them, telling them
that Pacoli was about to discover everything
but he arrived just in time.
The alien race, known as the Mondoshawans,
reveals that the priest was their human contact
from Earth and tells him that they must take
the stones and the fifth element because war
is coming and it’s no longer safe on Earth.
The leader takes out the key and opens the
walls.
The absurdity of the events causes Pacoli
to faint, while the priest can only look on
as the Mondoshawans take the four stones and
the sarcophagus containing the fifth element.
Billy regains his composure and fires at the
aliens, thinking they have killed Pacoli.
The priest tries to stop him, but it’s too
late.
As the wall closes on the Mondoshawan’s
leader, the alien gives the priest the key
and his last mission.
As the ship flies away, the priest promises
them to pass the knowledge until their return.
300 years pass and it’s the year 2263 on
Earth, the year of the prophecy.
The great evil appears as a giant fireball
traveling towards the blue planet.
A military spaceship in direct line with the
President observes the threat.
Just as they’re about to shoot the fireball,
a priest named Vito Cornelius from the secret
order intervenes.
He insists that there’s no use shooting
the threat and the only thing that can save
humanity is within a great prophecy of the
four and fifth elements.
The President dismisses his theory and proceeds
to shoot anyway.
The fireball absorbs the missiles and hurls
them back at the ship, destroying it instantly.
Back on Earth, Korben Dallas is a divorced,
ex-soldier, now working as a taxi driver and
living in a cramped apartment with his cat.
His close friend, Finger, calls him and they
plan to meet up tonight.
Korben gets about his usual day, apprehending
a mugger, and taking his taxi out for his
first drive of the day.
Back at the President’s headquarters, Cornelius
explains his theory in detail and convinces
the President to grant the Mondoshawans, who
are carrying the elements, into their territory.
On their way to Earth, the Mondoshawans are
attacked by a group of rogue aliens called
Mangalores and take the box containing the
elements.
The Mangalores contact their human conspirator,
Jean-Baptiste Emanuel Zorg, who is working
for the great evil and they agree to meet
at his factory.
The government visits the crash site and manages
to retrieve a surviving hand from the Mondoshawans,
taking it to their research lab.
In a recovery chamber, scientists reconstruct
the hand’s DNA back to life.
After a quick reconstruction process, the
chamber reveals a naked woman lying on the
table.
The woman wakes up and is shocked to find
herself trapped inside the glass chamber.
She cries out in an ancient language.
One of the generals approaches her and taps
on the glass, taunting her.
The woman breaks her hand through the glass
and knocks out the general and takes his multipass
card.
The alert bells start ringing and she finds
herself trapped in the room.
Seeking the only way out, she breaks through
the walls and escapes through the ventilation
system.
She soon finds herself at the top of the building
and jumps to escape the police.
She lands right on Korben’s flying cab.
Korben checks on his impromptu passenger and
feels instantly attracted and intrigued by
her.
Sensing her vulnerability, he decides to protect
her from the pursuing police officers.
They race through the streets with three police
cars chasing them.
Korben takes a sharp turn and leads them through
a rundown part of the city, losing one car
to a delivery truck.
They get back on the main street and a horde
of police cars fire at them.
Korben takes them down to the innermost streets
and through the fog, disappearing from the
police’s radar.
The woman tells him to take her to a priest
named Vito Cornelius and he manages to track
him down to his apartment.
Cornelius sees the elemental marks on her
arm and faints when he realizes that she’s
the fifth element.
Not wanting to waste time, he gets his assistant,
David, and they prepare to meet the fifth
element.
Meanwhile, Korben glances at the sleeping
woman and kisses her, only to be met by her
gun.
He apologizes, calms her down, and learns
that her name is Leeloo.
Cornelius and David arrive to give her the
key to the tomb and usher Korben outside.
He goes back to his apartment and calls Finger,
apologizing that he didn’t stick to their
meetup and telling him about Leeloo.
Meanwhile, Leeloo learns 5,000 years’ worth
of history through Cornerlius’s computer
and tells him that the stones have been stolen
but she knows exactly where they are.
At the same moment, Zorg meets up with the
Mangalores and their leader, Aknot.
Zorg trades the stones for new weapons, but
when Aknot hands over the box, it’s empty.
Cornelius then learns that the Mondoshawans
gave the stones to someone they could trust
and Leeloo was supposed to contact this person.
They track the person down to a hotel called
Fhloston Paradise in Planet Fhloston.
Suddenly, there’s a knock on the door and
a group of men appear and take Cornelius to
Zorg.
He threatens the priest to tell him where
the stones are but he doesn’t give in.
As he explains his plan to Cornelius, he chokes
on a piece of cherry and Cornelius saves him.
Zorg spares his life and lets him go and orders
his henchmen to track down the stones.
His men intercept a meeting with the President
and learn that the Mondoshawans gave the stones
to a diva named Plavalaguna who will be performing
at a charity ball at the Fhloston Paradise.
The President agrees and asks the military
to hire their best agent which happens to
be Korben Dallas.
The soldiers manage to track down Korben to
his apartment.
He finds out that the military rigged a raffle
contest to let him win two tickets to Fhloston
Paradise so that he could go undercover and
retrieve the stones discreetly.
Just then, Leeloo appears outside his door
and Korben manages to convince the soldiers
to hide in his fridge by lying that Leeloo
is his girlfriend whom he’s planning to
marry but hates the military.
He lets Leeloo in and Cornelius threatens
him with a gun and asks for the tickets.
Just then, the police swarm the building looking
for Korben.
He hides Leeloo and the priest in his apartment
and the police arrest the wrong guy.
The Mangalores arrive and intercept the arrest,
snatching the body bag and not knowing that
they took the wrong guy too.
Once the coast is clear, Korben takes Leeloo
and Cornelius out of hiding.
The priest knocks him out momentarily and
steals the tickets.
When Korben regains consciousness, he accepts
the mission.
Leeloo and Cornelius arrive at the airport
with David who acquired fake passports.
Just as they’re about to check-in, Korben
arrives and takes David’s place.
David runs to Cornelius and tells him what
happened.
The priest instructs him with the key to prepare
the temple while he goes after the other two.
The Mangalores arrive, disguised as Korben
and Leeloo, but they are caught up with security
quickly.
Korben is then whisked away by a flight attendant
to meet the flamboyant radio talk show host,
Ruby Rhod.
Cornelius sneaks into the restricted area
and manages to get into the plane.
Meanwhile, Zorg is called by Mr. Shadow, the
dark entity existing within the great evil.
Mr. Shadow threatens Zorg to retrieve the
stones or else.
In Planet Fhloston, the rocket plane arrives
at the hotel.
Korben wakes up and finds Leeloo missing.
Leeloo has managed to track down Plavalaguna.
The diva senses Leeloo hiding in the hallway
and sends out one of her assistants.
The assistant tells Leeloo to meet Plavalaguna
after the concert.
On the other hand, Korben is dragged away
by Ruby, giving him a tour of the hotel and
then of the opera house, as he goes on and
on in his live radio show.
The concert starts as Zorg arrives.
The curtains reveal Plavalaguna to be a blue-skinned
alien humanoid opera singer.
As she sings her piece, the Mangalores invade
the diva’s room and take the box.
Leeloo intervenes and takes out the Mangalore
group on her own with martial art skills she
absorbed while learning through Cornelius’s
computer.
She knocks out the remaining brute just as
the diva finishes her song.
Leeloo retakes the box and is stopped at the
door by Zorg and his gun.
He demands the stones back and Leeloo tosses
him the box and jumps into a nearby air vent.
Zorg sends out rounds of fire at the vent.
Meanwhile, the Mangalores have taken over
the entire hotel and are holding some guests
hostage.
One of them shoots Plavalaguna and she collapses
in Korben’s arms who then hides her under
the chairs.
Now with the stones in his hands, Zorg plants
a bomb in the room and leaves immediately.
Back at the opera house, Ruby is left alone
with Korben and the diva.
With her dying breath, Plavalaguna tells Korben
to help Leeloo save humanity and reveals that
the elemental stones are actually stored inside
of her.
This comes as an extreme disappointment to
Zorg when he realizes that the box is empty
and he goes back to Fhloston Paradise.
Korben takes a Mangalore down and instructs
a frantic Ruby to hold a gun to the alien’s
head.
He then opens the diva’s wounds and retrieves
the four stones.
He wraps them in his jacket and hands them
to Ruby, asking him to guard it with his life.
As the Mangalores surround the area, Korben
takes the gun and kills several members of
the crew.
The aliens fire back with missiles and drive
him to hide behind a bar.
Ruby crawls and escapes to one of the balconies.
The Mangalores have Korben trapped now as
they make him emerge from the rubble with
hands up.
Korben spots Ruby up at the balcony and signals
him to move to the side.
One of the aliens orders him to get down and
he jumps on a plank of wood, sending the alien’s
head through Ruby’s balcony.
Ruby holds him down and the alien panics,
firing his gun at his crew.
Korben gets a hold of a gun and fires it at
the remaining aliens.
As more of them start spilling into the room,
Korben takes Ruby and launches a grenade at
them.
With guns firing at them, they hide under
a table and survive the explosion.
They make their way to the control room where
the remaining Mangalores are holding Cornelius
and several other humans hostage.
As they take down some of the alien crew,
Korben identifies their leader and plans to
kill him, stating that no Mangalore will fight
if their leader is killed.
Just then, the leader asks the humans to send
in someone to negotiate.
Korben volunteers and swiftly kills the leader
with one shot.
With the hotel back under the human’s control,
Korben manages to track down an unconscious
Leeloo at the diva’s room.
Cornelius and Ruby follow him and discover
the bomb.
The alarms go off and the guests are immediately
evacuated.
The group makes their way to the docks just
as Zorg arrives back at the hotel room.
They find Zorg’s ship and board it.
Back at the hotel room, Zorg deactivates the
bomb.
Unbeknownst to him, the last Mangalore alive
activates their own bomb as revenge and it
detonates, killing Zorg instantly.
Korben, Leeloo, Cornelius, and Ruby safely
escape through the stolen ship.
On their way to Egypt, Leeloo gains consciousness
and talks to Korben about the strangeness
of humans.
The two share an intimate moment and Korben
can’t help but feel more attracted to her.
Meanwhile, the fireball has picked up its
pace and is racing towards Earth with dangerous
speed.
The President calls Korben and gives him the
ultimatum.
They have about two hours before humanity
is wiped away.
Back at the ship, Leeloo learns about the
violent history of wars between humans.
She is disgusted, disappointed, and shocked
to learn that she’s saving a race that’s
causing so much violence.
The group lands in the desert and is met by
David who takes them to the temple’s center.
Korben carries Leeloo and places her on the
center table.
With little time left, the group tries to
figure out a way to activate the weapon.
They match the stones to their respective
places but have no idea how to open them.
Korben tries to wake Leeloo up and asks her
how to open the stones, but she can only give
out a cryptic message in her dazed state.
Wind blows.
Fire burns.
Rain falls.
There are only three minutes left to annihilation
and David stands in front of his stone feeling
desperate.
He lets out a sigh and suddenly his stone
moves.
The group gathers around and Korben figures
out that they need to imitate the elements.
He blows on the box and a glowing golden stone
emerges.
David runs to the earth box and dumps sand
into it, revealing the earth stone.
Cornelius then wipes his forehead and opens
the water stone with his sweat.
As they gather around the last box, Korben
takes out the last piece in his matchbox.
He lights the box up and reveals the fire
stone.
He goes back to Leeloo and wakes her up.
He begs Leeloo to save them, but she says
that there’s no use in saving this world
with nothing to live for.
Korben breaks down and tells her that there
are things worth saving for like love.
He needs Leeloo to save them because he needs
her.
In the last moments, Korben declares his love
and kisses her.
Just as the fireball is about to hit Earth,
four beams of light erupt from the stone and
hit Leeloo, activating the ultimate weapon.
A blinding ray of light emerges from Leeloo’s
body, stopping the fireball in its tracks.
Korben holds on to her body as he feels the
enormous force around them.
The lights go out after a few seconds and
it’s confirmed.
The fireball has been destroyed and humanity
has been saved.
Korben takes an exhausted Leeloo in his arms
and they are greeted back at Earth as heroes.
The President tries to visit them, but the
scientists insist that they aren’t ready.
Inside the recovery chamber, Korben and Leeloo
engage in a passionate embrace and make love.